---
title: "The Idea behind and Making of ScanGPT"
description: "ScanGPT is a tool that can detect if a text was written by a human or by an artificial intelligence."
date: "2023-01-15T00:00:00"
tags: ["chatbot", "gpt", "ai"]
heroImage: "/assets/words/the-making-of-scangpt/scangpt-matrix.jpg"
---

## Introduction

Lately I've been very surprised by OpenAI's ChatGPT. I used the program for a variety of purposes, and I was very impressed with the results.

But, How do we guarantee that something is not... False?

Good. With a little research, I found GLTR, a project developed by MIT students that analyzes the frequency of words and their grammatical composition, and using Artificial Intelligence, shows you a graph with the analyzed content, which is not very useful for easily decide if you found something Fake or Real. → http://gltr.io/dist/index.html

Continuing my research, I came across GPT-2 Output Detector, which showed the probability of a chatgpt generated text being False - 98% was the result. → https://openai-openai-detector.hf.space/

Although these programs were developed to detect GPT-2 text, they still work to differentiate GPT-3 text from OpenAI.

# Why Differentiate Real vs. False?

I recently came across news of StackOverflow banning comment and replies made using ChatGPT. I also came across Schools banning the use of Artificial Intelligence, and even students being expelled because of it. I decided I needed to do something. As I have been making projects that are used by people and that are interesting, here's my solution to identify texts written by Artificial Intelligence.

**ScanGPT** → _https://scangpt.space_

I started it two weeks ago. It's really very simple to use. Add it to Chrome, and on any web page, click on the extension icon and voilà.

In a matter of seconds, the Extension scans the page and brings you important information, such as:
- Number of False Paragraphs
- Total number of paragraphs
- Paragraph most likely to be False
- Chance of the Page being Fake

---

# What is ScanGPT and How does it work?

ScanGPT makes use of OpenAI's pre-trained model RoBERTa, which has been deployed on huggingface spaces.

I integrated it with an API that returns a JSON object containing the probability of a paragraph being GPT-generated text.

The actual frontend component of ScanGPT is the Chrome extension, where it extracts all the paragraphs of the web page and sends POST requests to the API to get the GPT probability for each paragraph. The extension shows two reports: a page scan and a paragraph scan.

The page scan shows the number of paragraphs with a high chance of being generated, the total number of paragraphs on the page, the maximum probability observed in the paragraphs, and the probability of the page being generated by AI.

The paragraph scan displays the paragraph's likelihood of being generated by AI.

# Use Cases for ScanGPT

ScanGPT can be used in many ways. Here are some examples:

- Detecting AI-generated text on the web
- Detecting AI-generated text in research papers
- Detecting AI-generated text in documents

# Shameless Plug

Link to **ScanGPT** → _https://scangpt.space_

---

# Conclusion

If you've made it this far thank you and that's it for now. I am still upgrading ScanGPT so there will be many future changes. I have and will put a lot of effort into this project and I want you all to use it. I hope you like it.

Link to Star the repository. → https://github.com/zaidmukaddam/scan-gpt

Follow ScanGPT om Instagram for updates. → https://www.instagram.com/scangpt/
